###What's easy to do in Scala? What's not?
Scala does functional programming pretty well. There are lots of built-in methods and data structures that simplify a lot of tasks that involve data structures. This made doing a lot of the data processing / data rearrangement problems fairly straighforward.

Scala's functional syntax was nice as well. In a language like C++, you'd normally spend a lot of time writing out for loops. However, in Scala, you can usually use map to do something similar, which saves a lot of lines of code. Unfortunately, maps require functions to apply to all the elements in a data structure, which can be hard to write. This is complicated even further by the fact that often anonymous functions are used with map, but they won't look very nice if you're actually trying to do much in them. Therefore a lot of tasks end up being accomplished by using several function calls, each of which only does a simple step towards the end goal.

I also had a lot of trouble with the RecursionPatternMatchingExercise as I didn't see how case statements were all that helpful for those problems. While they are fine in certain circumstances, I don't think they were appropriate for solving the particular pattern matching problems in RecursionPatternMatchingExercise. Even some of the solutions didn't really use case statements and the ones using recursion were often quite awkward (which is why I ended up solving many of the problems in a different way). The unit tests weren't so great either as they wanted the output to be in a very specific order, which made the awkward recursion in the solutions necessary in the first place. While Scala has a lot of support for unit tests, I guess this shows that that doesn't guarantee that the unit tests themselves will turn out all that well. Perhaps there would be a better way to verify functionality than the way it was done in the assignment (or at least the hard-coded cases could be paired with some other method of evaluation to further enhance accuracy).

###What is/are your favorite language design choice(s) that the designers of Scala made? Why?
Scala has a lot of flexibility built in to it, which is nice. A lot of methods accept functions which allow you to accomplish a lot of different things with them. This is aided by the fact that Scala's lambda function syntax is compact and allows for quick creation of simple functions.

I also like that Scala's creators didn't just limit it to functional programming (even if it's meant to be used that way). It further increases the flexibility of the language and allows programmers to benefit from being able to use whichever style best solves the task at hand.

Scala's type inference system is nice as well. I didn't have to specify the type of many things when doing this assignment, but Scala inferred value types perfectly. The only exception was when processing a value of type Any with a case statement that specified variable types. If a value has to be of type String to match the case, then Scala should be able to infer that the value is a String, even if the original value was only specified to be of type Any. While the solution doesn't seem to have this problem, it would have been nice if I never had a problem with this in the first place. (I did eventually get things working without having to use casts, but I think Scala still probably has an issue with raising errors about method calls at compile time when you've made sure everything will be fine at run time.)

###What is/are your least favorite language design choice(s)? Why? And why do you think the designers made that / those choice(s)?
There were a lot of things that confused / irritated me when working with Scala. One thing that was really confusing is that functions can be called without parenthesis. While this is nice, it was initially upsetting because I couldn't call certain functions with parenthesis even if I wanted to.

I also found it confusing that Scala supports mutable variables and data structures if it is supposed to be a functional language. It probably would have been easier to solve some of the problems if I was allowed to use those features, especially since I have a lot of experience in declarative programming.

Yet another one of Scala's strange features in the ability to call methods without having to use periods and parenthesis. Again, while this can look nice and be handy in certain situations, it makes it easier to make mistakes and could make it harder to tell what's going on. This confusion was further exacerbated when it seemed like match had to use this kind of notation (it wasn't working and one of the changes I made to try and fix it was to remove the period). Like my issue with the parenthesis and function calls, I would have prefered to be able to use a more familiar notation.

I also missed return statements in Scala. It makes it really hard to return a value early on in a function as the return value is only derived from the last expression. While this wasn't so much of a problem in the practice problems, I worry that it would be hard to solve a lot of big problems with the language (as in stuff people would work on in industry).

###What Scala features would you like to learn more about?
There seems to be a lot of handy functionality in Scala that isn't always very well documented. For example, it took me a while to find out that you could use conditional expressions in case statements, which is very handy. There are also a ton of methods in Scala (many of which I did find and use in my solutions), but I still missed quite a few handy ones (like min and max for Lists). I wish it was easier to find good resources for Scala that documented all these methds and functions in one place rather than having to jump between a dozen different websites hoping that one will list a feature I hope / expect to exist in Scala.

It might also be nice to know about more advanced unit testing. As I said earlier, I didn't really like the unit tests provided and it would be interesting if Scala supported randomly generated test cases or test cases based on constraints or something like that.

I would also like to understand how objects in Scala work. Objects are already confusing enough for me and having to know about abstract classes and mixins and other stuff like that just makes things harder. Hopefully this will make more sense when we cover objects in class.